1. When I look at repeating or stripey  patterns (e.g., patterned flooring, wallpaper, buildings, striped  clothing), it makes my eyes or head feel so uncomfortable I need to look away from them
2. I try to avoid watching films or TV which have lots of fast movements or uses shaky camera footage (e.g.,  sports games, action films) because I find them uncomfortable to look at
3. I turn off or dim bright ceiling lights because they make my eyes or head feel uncomfortable
4. I have to  look away when watching sports or people running and moving around quickly because it's  visually uncomfortable
5. Stripey and repeating patterns and pictures seem to shimmer, flicker, or move when I look at them
6. I close my eyes or look away if there are strobing or flashing lights on a TV programme or a film at the  cinema
﻿7. Even if the sun is not directly in my eyes, I need to put the window shade down when driving in bright  conditions because the light is uncomfortable for my eyes or head
8. When there are lots of bright colours around me, I tend to get a headache
9. I find sudden changes from dark to light highly uncomfortable for my eyes and head (e.g., turning on  lights at night, coming out of a dark room)
10. Video games with lots of motion make my eyes or head feel uncomfortable
11. Cluttered or visually disorganized places (e.g., rooms, shops or other environments) make my eyes or head feel uncomfortable
12. I need to look away from or avoid complex patterns in my environment (e.g., wallpaper, carpets,  artwork)
13. Watching crowds of people moving around is uncomfortable for my eyes and head
14. When sunlight is reflected off surfaces (e.g., water, snow, mirrors, cars, screens) it makes my eyes or  head feel so uncomfortable that I need to look away
15. I find rooms or buildings with stripey or complex features (e.g., high contrast panelling, brickwork,  columns) uncomfortable to look at
16. Looking at flickering screens is uncomfortable for my eyes and head
17. I try to avoid going to supermarkets because I find them visually uncomfortable (e.g., too many objects, shelves, bright colours, and lights)
18. I try to avoid venues where there will be strobing or flashing lights (e.g., clubs, theatres, concerts) in case they make my eyes or head feel uncomfortable
19. My eyes or head feel uncomfortable if there is a bright light in the dark (e.g., cinema screens, lecture  theatres, torches, car headlights at night)
20. Clothing with stripes, checks, or complex patterns make me want to look away